The station of the cross presents sermons for everyday living, powerful sermons from faithful and inspirational priests.
Our first sermon for today is entitled The History and Meaning of the Lenten Ember Days.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, come in.
The first colic for Ember Wednesday in Lent.
Whereas if we hear our prayers, we beseech thee, O Lord, and stretch forth the right hand of thy majesty against all our adversaries.
This colic at first seems rather more general in its theme than some of the other ones we hear during Lent.
Indeed, the second colic of the Mass will refer more specifically to the practices
of Lent.
We start to encounter, and on another occasion during Lent I will speak in greater detail about this, we encounter here some of the most common formulas for Roman prayers that we find in the Mass.
There are certain phrases here which we find again and again in prayers throughout the year.
When it comes to the Holy Roman Liturgy, there is no urgency about finding different words to say each time that we pray, far from it,
As we know, we are all very much accustomed to reciting the Psalms on a regular basis, the Our Father, the Hail Mary, the Apostles Creed, and so on.
There is no great need for Catholics to always pray and coming up with different words.
Therefore, the Roman liturgy too often uses the same formula again and again.
And that we find especially today with the formula of the extension of the Lord's right hand.
Today's prayer follows a slightly different invocation to prayer
than we find on normal days.
Instead of the usual greeting dominus faviscum followed by Oremus, this prayer is preceded by the invocation Oremus flectamus genoa.
Let us pray, let us bend the knee, let us rise.
We will hear this again another couple of times during Lent after the time of the Ember days and
of course at the Easter vigil and as for the invocations that are on Good Friday.
It is always on some special occasion that this invocation was included.
It will be a couple more times in Lent as part of the ancient preparation of catechumens for their baptism in the Easter vigil.
Today it is there, especially in preparation as a scrutiny, not for those who are about to be baptized, but for those who are about to be ordained to the priesthood.
For this is, and has been since antiquity, one of the canonical days, that is, and for Saturday, one of the canonical days for the ordination of priests.
A little bit earlier than that, going back to the earliest antiquity, it was only the Easter vigil in which that could occur.
However, the addition of this Saturday
December, Saturday, and Lent was made in the earliest centuries in Rome.
A reminder briefly about the meaning of these ember days and how they fit during Lent.
Do not make the mistake, as I did early on, of thinking that ember had something to do with Ash Wednesday, as though we were somehow remembering the embers from the fire we used to burn the palms.
No, it has nothing to do
with the English word ember, it's simply an English corruption of Latin quattro tempura for times or for seasons.
And you may know too that that is the origin of the Japanese dish tempura, which was devised to eat on the ember days.
The Portuguese there evangelizing the Japanese devised this fried vegetable dish
as something that could be eaten on days of penance.
It might well be asked why we have these particular days of penance when, as you have already been instructed in the early days, there was already a very rigorous fast throughout Lent.
It would seem that the best historical explanation is that the full 40 days of fasting and preparation for Lent was originally for those preparing to be baptized.
However, soon after, all the other Christians wished to
join with their soon-to-be Christians in undergoing that full fast.
Whereas the preparation for Easter began, first of all, in the earliest times with the rigorous fast during the Holy Week, it soon expanded outward.
And those who were already Christians did not want to leave alone.
Those who were preparing to be baptized.
And soon it expanded out to a full 40 days of fasting.
The other ember days that we find throughout the year are a little bit older than Lenten ember days.
The ones that we have on other periods of the year, that is in September, December, and June are eventually fixed for the octave of Pentecost.
These predate the ones that we keep now.
Nevertheless, these are very old.
We know for certain that they are already well established in the fifth century, which means they must go back even earlier
But they are not quite as old as the other Ember days we find in the year.
And so it is possible, nevertheless, that somehow when these Lenten Ember days were put into place, there was perhaps still some room for variation in how the Lenten fast was kept.
At any rate, the Roman church wished to sanctify the Four Seasons with these days of fasting and abstinence, Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday.
This was a particular Roman practice that was proposed to the whole Roman Church and then to the rest of the world.
Fasting on Wednesdays and Fridays was known to everyone, both in East and West.
We see that evidenced by the fact that our Eastern brethren continue to observe this until this very day, fasting throughout the year on Wednesdays and Fridays.
We have the earliest testimony of this.
documents that date back to the very same time as the Bible itself, to the New Testament, that is to the end of the 1st century, already bear witness to the fact that Christians fasted on Wednesdays and Fridays throughout the year.
Certainly the earliest Christians did keep Easter every year, however they were great in their fervor in wishing to keep every week as a preparation for the resurrection.
Every Sunday was to them
a mini Easter, and therefore they prepared for it well by fasting on Wednesdays and Fridays in memory of the betrayal of our Lord on Wednesday and his death on Friday.
However, early on in Rome, the practice developed of continuing the fast from Friday all the way into Sunday, so keeping a full fast on Saturday as well.
We have witness of this in the writings of St. Ambrose in the fourth century who says that while in Milan, where he was bishop, they only fast on Wednesdays and Fridays, he says, when I'm in Rome, I do as the Romans do, which is where, of course, we get that adage.
This particular fast then of Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday, although it was only four times during the year, was proposed to the rest of the Christian world,
And so it was adopted throughout the Western Church eventually, at least on these four periods of the year to do this fast on Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday.
But as I said, it soon became a great preparation for another sacrament, not baptism, but rather holy orders, which would be conferred on the end of Saturdays.
With all the many readings and collacks we find on that day, each one corresponds to one of the orders that will be conferred all the way up to the Holy Priesthood.
which is why these figures are presented to us on this day, Moses, Elias, and then finally, as we will see on Ember Saturday, our Lord Jesus Christ Himself, each undertaking a 40-day fast.
We are invited to have a great courage on this day.
The Holy Mother Church wishes to encourage us by the reading she proposes to us
especially the words that are spoken to the prophet Elias, who is despairing of his mission and wishes to give up and die.
The angel comes and brings him a small hearth cake and a vessel of water and tells him to eat.
First one time, to which he sleeps and then telling him to rise again and eat a second time.
He says, arise and eat, for there has yet a great way to go.
And he arose and ate and drank
and walked in the strength of that food 40 days and 40 nights.
The earliest fathers understand this passage to mean that we are to have a different sort of food during Lent.
What is to accompany us on our 40 day pilgrimage is not the normal foods that give us pleasure throughout the year, whether we are to take only the minimum as the prophet Elias did, and what truly nourishes us fills us with joy and strength throughout Lent.
is our penitential works, especially our great works of almsgiving, our works of charity, and turning to God in prayer.
This is then what is to fill us up throughout these days.
And give us strength for the spiritual combat that we have to undergo.
For certainly, as the church prays several times during this mass to preserve us from our enemies, it is speaking very much of the personal spiritual combat of the soul, which is what we understand by the words
that we courted at the beginning of the sermon, this collect, and we applaud the divine assistance.
First, if we hear our prayers, we beseech the O Lord and stretch forth the right hand of thy majesty against all our adversaries through Christ our Lord.
Amen.
We hope you enjoyed that sermon entitled, The History and Meaning of the Lenten Ember Days.
Our next sermon is entitled, Ember Wednesday of Lent, Doing the Will of the Father.
In the name of the Father and the Son, the Holy Ghost, Amen.
Behold, my mother and my brethren, for whoever does the will of my Father in heaven, he is my brother and sister,
and mother.
Today, we enter into the usual checkpoints in the year, what we call the Ember days, a very special group of days dedicated and marked around the change of seasons.
And we usually have four of them.
So in spring, summer, autumn and winter.
And the one that is dedicated for
the springtime is happening today, Friday, and Saturday.
So these days of what we call ember days are days where we recognize our really dependence on the created things of God, the nature.
All our food comes from the earth.
Our sun gives us energy.
everything that is around us must be thankful for and so during these times church reminds us from long tradition to remember the benefits received from the fruits of the earth and how this really helps us to especially on this group of ember days of of Lent to really focus on what is true and as a matter of fact
The ember days have influenced many cultures.
We know, for example, ember days come from the word in Latin, cuato or tempore, meaning the four times that are spaced out, such as for the ember days, these four periods of time that we try to remember the greatness of God and be grateful for them and ask God for mercy that He may give us a good harvest on each of these seasons.
Also,
that we fast during these days to let us know that we cannot be totally dependent on just our food, but we have to depend really more on the grace of God.
However, this kuato tempore sounds kind of familiar if you were to come and visit a Japanese restaurant.
The Japanese restaurant probably nearby
There's one here that is quite known and I recommend it.
If you were to come and see the menu, they offer variety of sushi, of the noodle soup, of all these things that are quite exotic, maybe not normal in our cuisine that we have at home.
But however, one item strikes that is quite similar to the spelling of kuato or tempore, and that is what we call the tempura plate.
Tempura plate,
is if you don't know what it is it is usually a method of cooking vegetables and seafood using a batter using especially cold water in order to make that crispy and that is what it is it is simply vegetables or seafood that is fried in a very light and crispy batter and that is served as an appetizer nowadays but if you remember the origin of tempura which is a
evolution of the word Tempore then we remember how then the Portuguese and the missionaries who visited Japan wanted to make their lent more doable and so they would fry their vegetables and possibly other seafood but normally would be vegetables because it's during Lenten time and would make a batter of it and because of that that was the first ever
they had this type of tempura which the Japanese then remade and made better and so this tempura plate is really a lentin dish and amber days always reminds us then of this this very delicious plate however also penitential plate because in its origins we use it for these days of fasting so if you are able to try to
partake in this tempura plate, which is really part of our Catholic culture.
Even though we might not be of Japanese origin, still the Portuguese have influence because of their Catholicity, the other nations who really do not know Christ.
And let us continue to pray for those in Japan and for those who do not know much about Christ or have abandoned Christ because of certain governments there in the Asian countries.
to really have them know that it's truly God that they need, not simply economics, not simply their government, not simply their well-being, but their well-being then becomes more fruitful if they remember to put Christ in their heart and in the liturgy.
And the rest of the readings for Mass is very, very full of special meaning and we must take it slowly
Unfortunately, we have only a few minutes, but the church offers today two readings for us to contemplate.
The first one comes from the story of Exodus, this account when Moses had been invited by our Lord to come up on a mount, the Mount of Sinai.
And traditionally during this time,
when he spent six days in the glory of God, imagine the glory of God that is explainable, then also afterwards an additional 40 days to be on that holy mount.
Imagine, traditionally we believe that it was during these first six days with the glory of God where God revealed the six days of creation through Moses.
And that is why we believe that he came to write the first five books of the Bible
through the help, of course, of our Lord, who gave him all of the knowledge, infused knowledge, this vision, this information, nor for him to then write it down and receive it for all of us.
But imagine, he also stayed for 40 days and 40 nights there at the Mount of Sinai.
Now in the second part of the Liturgy, the second reading, we come across Elias.
And we also see that he was getting a little bit tired and that he wanted to ask to die.
What a very interesting request.
But remember how we can connect to that too.
Sometimes we want to give up.
We want to say, Lord, let me go now out of this world and let me be with you.
How many times we desire that, that we want to go to heaven already if we can.
But our Lord has more plans for him, for Elias.
And so therefore he gave him sustenance with the help of an angel to give him a heart cake.
Imagine something from the earth.
So reminds us of Ember days again.
Some kind of cake that is made of the ground.
Imagine that.
So it's mixed with the soil and it was made into type of bread cake that he ate twice.
So he slept.
He restored himself bodily, then he restored himself with this nourishment, and he off he went because God said that there are more things that you have to do.
Just like us, whenever we feel discouraged, when we feel that tired, feels frustrated with the world or with ourselves, let us go simply to the Holy Liturgy and be sustained with Holy Communion, with the Holy Sacraments of God because
We will never rest.
We will not find true rest here on this earth until it is truly the rest that is given to us by God, God willing in heaven.
So let us never find full comfort here on this earth.
Unfortunately, we cannot.
We cannot be here pain-free.
We cannot be here all in luxury.
We know that we have to struggle in order to bear the cross.
God didn't give us a bed.
God gave us the hard wooden cross and that we must bear.
But he gave it to us very lightly.
He says that his burden is light and yoke sweet.
Remember that, that he said that it is bearable and we can take it as long as we follow the will of God.
And that is what the gospel is.
There are three elements there that is presented to us that people demanding signs, demanding signs to Jesus to prove who he was.
Why do we need proof?
Why do we need proof if God is indeed present here now?
So let us not question the Lord's providence.
Maybe it is very difficult for us to understand why things have to happen the way they are.
But remember in God's infinite providence, He permits everything either directly or permissively.
Remember that.
And therefore if there's a tragedy in the home, if we cannot get our Lent to start up correctly, there must be reason that God has permitted.
And he knows that it is for our good.
So let us be patient.
Let us use this ember time to reflect on the greatness of God and be grateful.
The second element that our Lord had spoken very intriguing is about the spirit that wanders.
The spirit that wanders and tries to attack souls.
So like a possession, like a devil, who comes to wreak havoc in our souls.
However, he said,
that even if the person is to be removed of that spirit, the spirit tries to then team up with other people, other spirits and attack, the person becomes worse.
So let us look at the situation of today's age of how it seems to be getting worse.
So let us not be too surprised because our Lord had foreseen this already.
And two, we must continue to be vigilant, dear faithful,
in order that the spirits of darkness may not overshadow us.
He knows that it is lent.
The devil knows that and he wants to make sure that we don't enjoy and enjoy using this lead correctly.
He wants us to use this improperly either by reverting back to our passions, by our bad habits or by really ignoring the passion of Christ.
And it is through the passion of Christ that the devil lost.
And so therefore he is a very sore loser.
and he will try his best to not to convince you, not to take upon the many graces that are stored, that are given, that are ruled by God to give to you.
Our Lord gives so many graces, sometimes we cannot accept them because of our disposition.
So let us remember how the devil wants to block that flow of grace into our hearts.
So let us try our best to remove those obstacles, those obex, those things that
that do not help us in the practice of holy charity, in the practice of almsgiving and penance and love of one another.
And that is the last lesson of today, that yes, we can help our families, we can do well in our families, but God will call us, His brother, His sister, if we do the will of God.
And that is why let us continue to be aware of each one.
Let us continue to pray for one another, whether it be in our daily devotions, in our Holy Rosary.
Let us pray for those who are suffering.
Let us pray for those who need conversion.
Let us pray for those who need the help and the grace of God so that we can make this the best lead that we can possibly have so far.
And this we have to do in Christ's name.
We must do everything for the honor and glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Amen.
in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.
So today, Ember Wednesday, in the first week of Lent, the readings today follow the Sunday reading we just had this past week, the first Sunday of Lent.
There is a theme there, also present here.
We say Sunday's Gospel, that was about Christ's time in the desert, when he was driven by the Spirit into the desert and he fasted 40 days and 40 nights.
Today's first lesson is about Moses and how he ascended Mount Sinai and received the Ten Commandments, and he was there for 40 days and 40 nights.
The second lesson for today is about the Prophet Elias, who, after eating a heart cake and drinking a vessel of water, on the strength of that food, walked 40 days and 40 nights to Mount Korah.
So obviously a theme that we're following, right?
40 days, 40 nights.
And today's gospel reading is no exception.
Our Lord tells the Pharisees, they ask him for a sign.
He says, an evil and adulterous generation asks for a sign.
But no sign will be given but that of Jonah and the whale.
The sign of Jonah and the whale.
When Jonah reached, he said, yet 40 days and the number will be destroyed.
So there's our 40 day theme.
So in the Bible, whenever we see that 40 days and 40 nights, it rained on the earth, but that same period of time, 40 days, 40 nights, it rained.
That is definitely significant, right?
That is not accidental.
It means something.
In the Bible it can mean a little literal period of time, it's actually 40 days, or it can mean a figurative sense all long time.
In either sense,
whether it's literal or figurative, it means a trial in a difficult period.
When you hear 40 days, it means, okay, there's something penitential about this, there's something that is difficult, something arduous, but for a reason.
And so for us, right, I mean the obvious lesson for us is Lent coming up here, it's a period of 40 days, right, 40 days of fasting and penance.
This is a serious time, I'll be taken for a good reason, right, it's a trial, it's not easy.
But if it were something we could say significant, right, after all those events, right, the 40 days Moses receiving the commandments, Christ in the desert, or, you know, 40 days and then it will be destroyed, we can say that, okay, those are all serious events, right, and that's part of us, right.
Lend is a serious, right, there's something at stake here.
It's our salvation.
It's leading up to a good Friday, our Lord's death on the cross.
The lesson here, we can say the purpose of that, that difficulty is the voluntary character of land, that 40-day fasting.
If we have never experienced a time of trial, if our faith has never had to be tested, if we've never voluntarily proved, okay, these are not just words, my actions are corresponding to my profession of faith.
I'm willing to give everything I have for Christ,
Now is my chance to prove it.
If I'm willing to give everything, can I give something?
Can I give time?
Can I give a little bit of discomfort?
Can I give a little bit of inconvenience?
This is our chance to prove the sincerity of our words.
Because of the only time my faith is tested, if I never test my faith voluntarily throughout the years,
When the time comes for me to give everything, I'll never be able to do it, because I've never tried it before, as part of the purpose of life.
But we are assisted in this journey, and that is obviously the lesson.
In the first lesson, Moses is going up on the mountain, he receives the word of God.
40 days and 40 nights, and he receives the word of God written on stone.
But what man, when his son asks for bread, gives him a stone.
You can't eat the word on stone.
That was the God's never plan.
That was never God's plan, was to leave his word written in stone.
He wanted it to be a lie.
He wanted it to nourish us.
That's why the word became flesh and dwelt among us, Christ and Holy Communion.
We can eat that bread.
We ask our Father for bread and he gives it to us.
He's not content to give us the word on stone, he gives the word in the flesh and bread.
And hence the second lesson, which is the prophet Elias, who eats that heart cake and he walks 40 days and 40 nights on the strength of that food.
The Holy Eucharist is what nourishes us in the desert of this life.
In the gospel, yet 40 days and then it will be destroyed.
And so the inhabitants do penance there, and that's the sign, right?
No sign will be given to this generation but the sign of Jonah in the whale, even as Jonah was in the belly of the whale three days and three nights.
So the Son of Man will be in the earth three days and three nights.
The final miracle that God is going to work is the resurrection of Christ.
Once you have that miracle, we don't need any other signs.
So we don't need fire and brimstone coming off of Mount Sinai.
We don't need a miraculous sustainment of life, walking 40 days and 40 nights after eating just a little bit of food.
And this is after Elias had called down fire from heaven to consume the prophets of Baal.
So we don't need to see those incredible miracles anymore because we have the example of Christ who rose from the dead.
That's the last public miracle we could say that we need.
So having these miracles, having the strength of that food in our souls, I don't need to see that food.
I don't need to see the divine supernatural reality behind it to believe it, because I've already been given the sign of Christ rising from the dead.
But, you know, it's not enough to do the right thing or to look good on the outside.
Say my prayers are to do lent and fasting and penance as we've heard, right?
Be like the hypocrites.
Because we'll be like the man in the gospel.
His house is swept and garnished.
It looks clean.
In fact, it is clean.
It's swept out of bad habits.
It's garnished with virtue.
But guess what?
Guess what else the gospel tells us?
It's empty.
Nobody's in there.
We're supposed to invite Christ into our souls.
That's the whole reason we're doing all this penance and fasting in the first place is to grow closer to Christ.
So if we forget what this is all about, if we forget why we're doing all this in the first place, and that he's the most important person, and that you would rather live in a dirty house than not live in a clean house, right?
You think like, oh, sorry, don't come in yet.
This is not clean enough for you.
No, let him in.
It's dirty, but we need to start cleaning the place up, right?
If Christ is out of our souls, if we have all the bridges on the outside, but Christ is on the inside, we're going to end up with seven devils worse than the first.
Right?
We've cleansed our house of laziness, lust, gluttony, all that kind of things, but the devils that come in are pride, anger, arrogance, stubbornness, and so on.
And we would too well recall the words of St. Paul in 1 Corinthians 10.
He says that the Israelites were all in the desert.
They all deranged from the same spiritual rock.
They ate the same spiritual food.
Yet God was not pleased with most of them.
So these fast things and penances that we do, this 40-day trial proving our sincerity, it is possible that we just are doing it for some other reason.
We got to remember that we're doing it for a person, and he needs to be inside of us with grace.
And that would be a good reminder to those who say, well, I'm a good person.
Isn't that enough?
Why do I have to believe all this?
I'm basically a good person kind of a thing.
You're like the man with whose house?
It's empty.
It's swept and garnished.
It looks great.
You've got a lot of virtue.
Maybe you're a good person.
But if you don't have Christ, you don't have anything.
And in the long run, you will be inhabited by devils.
Seven devils worse than the first.
So let us keep all that in mind.
There's a lot to meditate upon, there's a lot to think about in the scripture readings, and there's the very penitential practices of Lent itself.
So we've got, you know, we're just starting our 40-day journey into Lent, let us continue our resolutions, not to be deterred, not to be discouraged, but yes, you know, it is going to be difficult, but my goal is not just virtue, but my goal is closer union with Christ, however that may be.
Maybe I don't succeed in my Lent impendences very much, but if I do succeed in coming closer to Christ, then we will definitely have accomplished the purpose of Lent.
So let us continue striving to do that, to grow closer to God.
God bless you all in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost.
We hope you enjoyed that sermon entitled, You might have a clean house, but is God in it now?
Our next sermon is entitled, Who is my mother?
Who are my brethren?
in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, amen.
In the gospel for today, there is a passage that can be misunderstood.
And for this reason, it is good for us to take a look at it.
Someone said to our Lord, behold thy mother and thy brethren,
are standing outside seeking faith.
But our Lord said, who is my mother and who are my brethren?
And stretching forth his hands towards his disciples, he said, behold, my mother and my brethren, for whoever does the will of my father in heaven, this one is my brother,
and sister and mother.
Our Lord Jesus Christ was a priest.
The high priest of our faith at St. Paul Causley.
And as a priest, our Lord had to leave everything behind in order to occupy himself completely with the things of his father.
He had to leave his family, his house, his town, everything.
In the book of Genesis, it is written that a man shall leave his parents in order to unite himself with his spouse.
And Christ our Lord left in his mother
in order to unite himself with his spouse, with his bride, the church.
In order to have his own family, a family which is spiritual.
His relatives would be not those with whom he shared the same blood,
but with whom he shared the same spirit.
Those who believed in him and wished to accomplish the will of God, these would be from the family of Christ, by faith and the charity.
In this way, we can understand a little better the words of Christ when he says,
Who is my mother?
And who are my brethren?
Whoever does the will of my Father in heaven?
This one is my brother and sister and mother.
The words of the Lord fall from casting a shadow over his mother, confirming their profound union
because who more than her believed in the Lord and wanted to accomplish his will?
Who more than her can be said to be the faithful handmaid of the Lord?
More than giving birth to Christ.
More than giving birth to Christ, the Virgin Mary.
was always united with our Lord, by faith and the charity.
She always believed that her son was the savior.
Even at the foot of the cross, she never doubted.
And she always intended to do the will of God, even if it meant
for her to see the death of her son.
In this way, the words of the gospel confirm the closeness of Jesus and Mary, not only in the flesh, but above all in the spirit.
So let us not be deceived, or Lord always honored his mother.
But the words of the gospel today want to teach us that Mary was more blessed in receiving the faith of Christ than in conceiving the flesh of Christ.
As Saint Augustine says, her closeness as a mother would have been of no profit to Mary.
Had she not borne Christ in her heart after a more blessed manner than in her flesh.
So we see that our Lord always honored
his mother.
And if he says that his family are those who accomplish the will of God.
So we know for sure that in the first place we have our blessed mother.
Amen.
We hope you enjoy that sermon entitled, Who is my mother?
Who are my brethren?
Our next sermon is entitled, Jonah, Lent and Repentance.
that we are every day in need of repentance.
Every day we should be turning away from that which takes us away from God, sin, those things that are not in proper order, and turning back to God.
You know they say that sin has a turning away from God, the Creator, towards the creature.
And that repentance is turning away from the creature back to God.
Or whatever that thing that is a creature, it could be something
some person, whatever it is that has become your God, you might say.
You've made some kind of idol out of something else and you've given your allegiance to that instead of to God.
And we all know that every day we're in need of some repentance.
We all have to because of the condition of being in the state of fallen nature.
There's a need of constant conversion, repentance,
renewing every day or resolve to follow Christ to be faithful to God.
Every day is a day to renew our baptismal promises of allegiance to God and rejection of the devil and his work.
So really Lent is about repentance and God gives us this season to once again focus on that.
You know what is it that we have put in the place of God or what are we serving
More faithfully you might say than maybe the God who created us and we need to get our our souls in proper order again In the book of Jonah, you know this story is one thing that amazes It amazes the people of the day of the time of our of our Lord and because here are these pagan people than Ninevites Which is part of I believe of Syria and
These are their enemies of the Israelites.
And here God sends Jonah, the prophet, to go and preach to them.
Didn't send them to the Israelites, send them to the Ninevites, because God was even concerned about their welfare.
And Jonah goes and begins to preach.
And it's interesting that it says that when he began to preach, it says here that
Jonah began his journey through the city and had gone, but a single day's walk announcing 40 days more and Nineveh shall be destroyed.
Now, may he said maybe more than just that, but the gist of it was that if they don't repent of their evil ways, they will be destroyed.
And it says, when the people of Nineveh believed God, they proclaimed to fast.
Then say, when they believed Jonah,
is that they made a supernatural act of faith.
They heard Jonah preaching and they said, this is not just a talk, this is not just a man telling us this, this is coming from God.
They made an act of faith, a supernatural act of faith, that God didn't keep that to just the Israelites, that even pagans in the time of Jonah could be given the grace to make a supernatural act of faith, to say, hey, this is not coming from man,
but coming from God.
They believed that God was speaking through Jonah and they knew they needed to turn away from what they were doing.
And they as a whole community, as a whole city from the king on down to the animals did penance as a sign of showing that they really were sorry for what they had done and needed to please God.
This is, and then our Lord uses this in his preaching to his
to the Pharisees and to the people of his day as a sign of condemning them before they are hearing someone greater than Jonah, the Son of God himself, and they are being so slow and sluggish to believe that they are hearing Christ, the Son of God, and they're not willing to see beyond the physical appearance and saying, you know, there's more to it than just a man speaking to us here.
This is God.
Some did, many did.
But those who were really of the, you might say, the movers and shakers of society, of Hebrew society, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, and others, the priests were slow and refused to see God speaking to them through Christ.
And we can look at it today, you know.
It takes the same kind of supernatural act of faith.
When we hear the teaching of the church,
about the moral code, about how we're to live our lives, whether it be from the immorality of same-sex marriage and that we shouldn't be even tinkering with the idea of making something acceptable in society, or the evils of abortion, or whatever it may be, whatever it may be, that if we look at that and we hear it, do we see that it is God speaking to us through that?
That takes the same act of faith to recognize in the church, God's representative.
And that this is not just the teaching of some one or some group of men, but this is really the teaching and the word of God being manifested to us in our day.
So we need to always, you know, in this, and many people today, many Catholics thumb their nose at the teaching of the church.
and don't even realize who it is they're turning their back on.
It's not the Pope they are rejecting.
It's not the bishops that they're rejecting.
It's Christ they're rejecting or accepting when they accept or reject the teaching of the church, especially those having to do with the moral life of the church.
Those couples who turn their back on the teaching of the church on humanity,
back in the 60s and even since then, they aren't turning their back on Pope Paul VI, they're on the bishops of whoever.
They're turning their back on Christ and they are following the ways of evil.
And this is where we are seeing the fruits of that rejection of God in our society today.
Look at the, when the, when the Ninevites
realized that God was telling them that they're doing wrong.
They made a sincere act of repentance and God blessed them.
He spared them of the evil that he had intended.
What happens when we, as a group or as a society, from individuals to a whole nation or whatever, turn our back on God?
Are we expecting then God's going to get, you know, just ignore it?
No, we are going to reap the fruits of that.
He's going to punish us.
in whatever way he does, whether it brings economic problems or enemies at our gate or terrorism, whatever it is.
It's not that God, you know, manifests that.
It's because he says, okay, you want to choose your evil ways.
Now you get to share in the fruits of that evil ways and the evil, the wages of sin is death.
And for the Ninevites, they understood and they
our shame you might say, our Lord is saying they're going to come and condemn you because you had a greater one than Christ here in your midst and you refuse to believe.
They're going to be there on judgment day laughing at you because you had much more to more graces than them and they responded.
And even today the Ninevites are going to laugh at modern man.
at the modern Catholic of the 21st century who rejects the teaching of the church.
They may be there on judgment day, laughing at them and condemning them because we too have a greater one.
We have the church, the mystical body of Christ in our midst today, teaching and trying to lead us with charity and mercy to the ways of God and how to be happy.
And we too will be put to shame on judgment day
if we don't wake up and see the light.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.
Amen.
We hope you enjoyed that sermon entitled Jonah, Lent, and Repentance.
Our final sermon for today is entitled The Fasts of Moses and Elijah, Prefigure That of Christ.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, amen.
Today we celebrate the Wednesday of Ember Week in Lent.
I read that traditionally there are two principal objects for the ember days for this time of the year.
The first is to offer to God the season of spring and by fasting and prayer to draw down his blessing upon it
The second is to ask God to enrich with His choicest races the priests and the sacred ministers who were to receive their ordination in the coming days.
Dom Prosper Gérogneur states that the epistle of the Mass consists of two lessons from sacred Scripture.
Today the Church brings before us the two great types of Lent
Moses and Elijah in order to impress us with an idea of the importance of these 40 days fast which Christ himself solemnly consecrated when he observed it and thus fulfilled in his own person what the law and the prophets had but prefigured Ephraim the Syrian who is a father from the fourth century
commented on the meal that the angel gave to the prophet Elijah prior to his own journey in the desert for 40 days.
And that meal consisted of water and bread baked in ashes.
Ephraim the Syrian said this, allegorically, the bread baked in the ashes has two different meanings.
On the one hand,
It immediately shows the toils of penitence which the ashes symbolize perfectly since they are a figure of mourning and of a contrite heart.
The unleavened bread soaked in ashes and the water are also the food of the poor and the miserable.
He continues, but we can say with greater accuracy
that they are figures of all the righteous, for whom the providence of the Creator has established a course of life in the paths of privation.
Therefore He leads them through much suffering, privation of food, and a severe fast in order to purify them completely from all filth of earthly things.
Then He guides them to the mountain,
which is the perfection and the accomplishment of the saints.
Those are the words of Ephraim, the Syrian.
The lengthy fast that Moses and Elijah endured prefigure the fast that our Lord made prior to his public ministry.
And these fasts were to prepare for what was ahead.
We too
Participate in 40 penitential days of Lent to prepare for the solemnity of Easter.
May these days of fasting prepare our hearts and make us more disposed to participate in the solemnity of the resurrection.
During these sacred days of Lent, may we humbly receive the Eucharist, the bread of life,
which nourishes us for our path to God's holy mountain.
It sustains us in our trials, heals our many wounds, and cleanses us of our iniquities.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.
Amen.
We hope you enjoyed our final sermon for today entitled, The Fasts of Moses and Elijah, Prefigure That of Christ.
Thank you for listening to the Station of the Cross presents, Sermons for Everyday Living.
May these sermons help you grow in your faith journey.
Please say three Hail Marys for the priests who preached today's sermons.
We hope you will join us again next time for, Sermons for Everyday Living.
Have a blessed day.